[MUSIC]
>> Justin Meyer: All right so I'm gonna
go through the answer to INSTANCEOF.
This is our last exercise for
this kind of stuff.
It actually gets mostly, almost all,
easier than what we just did for
the end of, for
the rest of today and for tomorrow.
So we were just doing instance of,
we wanted to be able to say,
hey is p an instance of person or is
p an instance of object,
instance of person or instance of object.
And the way to do this is start with p.
And just check when, or
person, check when it's
proto property points to
the constructor function's prototype.
So I'll just check.
Okay, is person.proto
equal to person.prototype,
p.proto equal to person.prototype.
If I were doing for object,
I would first check that.
And then I would walk up again to this,
this is a proto,
the proto again,
to see if it's equal to object.prototype.
So let's see this in action.
So the first thing I'm gonna
do is just check if objects
>> Justin Meyer: .__proto is equal to
constructor.prototype.
>> Justin Meyer: All right, and
if it is, I wanna return true.
So this would work if
I was doing something
like instance of p and person.
All right, cuz I'm just gonna, again,
check p proto is that equal to
person.prototype, return true.
Now I wanna make it work.
So if I do, is p an instance of object.
So to do that,
I'm gonna use a little bit of recursion.
I'm only gonna do it if there is a proto
property, to make sure that I haven't
gotten to the, I didn't draw the proto
of this guy but he is, it would be no.
>> Justin Meyer: If there is a object
proto, I'm just gonna return
the result of instance of
pass at the object proto,
and pass at the constructor function.
And finally I'll just do an else, cuz
that means we've gotten to the very top.
And return false.
Any questions about this?
>> Justin Meyer: Cool.
All right so I'm gonna do kind of
a little high level overview, but
try to do it from a different
way of just this kinda,
the dot operator, proto property,
and the prototype.
So,
>> Justin Meyer: Let
me show something kind of interesting.
Again, JavaScript is
a language of conventions.
You've all created an object like this,
object equals, and
you give it some name, property,
and I'm gonna put in foo.
And I'm sure all of you have seen
object.name and gotten Foo back.
Equal's an operator and
the dot is an operator, right?
These things are part of the language
that do something given some data.
The dot operator you've all probably
seen it used in this fashion, over,
over and over again.
But you could also do something like this,
I can create an object with a proto
property that points to another object
with a name property that is bar.
I could just, and then if I were to write
object.name, this would give me bar.
This is all that the dot
operator is doing.
It is just saying,
look at on the current object for
a name property, if it doesn’t exist,
look if it has a prototype,
a proto property, look there for
the name property.
And I could just go as deep as I wanted.
I could just keep going.
Proto,
>> Justin Meyer: And
then put in the name property,
and I would still get bar.
Now one thing you don't wanna do and
[LAUGH] they'll actually
warn you if you're doing it,
if I were to do something like this,
object.proto.proto is equal to object.
I don't know if which level
of proto I'm at there,
but if I were to make a cycle with
protos and try to look up a property,
I think browsers, these used to crash
browsers if you try to read the property.
But now, I think,
most of them detect cycles and
will not let you,
will throw an error if you try to do this.
But just to show, it's just,
there's just this magic property.
And it, the .operator just follows it.
That's as simple as it is.
You might be,
the next question might be, why?
Why does it do this?
Why is there this special proto property
that works with these dot operators,
to make this crazy magic happen?
The reason is,
is because we like, as humans,
typically object oriented programming.
I wanna be able to create a animal and
I wanna be able call eats on it.
And I might want to be able to
create a million animals and
be able call eats on all of them.
But I don't want to manually
assign an eats function
on every single time a new animal
instance is called, right?
So what I mean is, I could theoretically,
create an animal kind of like this.
I could create makeAnimal function.
>> [NOISE]
>> Justin Meyer: And
that could take the name of the animal.
And I could do something like this,
return, I gonna do var animal.
Make an object with a name as the name,
and then I'm just assign it's function.
>> Justin Meyer: Now if I
were to call this makeAnimal.
>> Justin Meyer: Let me
put some semicolon, so
it doesn't look like I'm
doing stuff horribly wrong.
If I were to call this makeAnimal and
make an animal, this animal would
behave just like the other animal
objects that we were kinda showing created
with the new, if I was doing new animal.
So I could do animal that eats,
and that would give me
eating food or something like that.
But who can kinda see the problem here?
Kinda already mentioned
it's performance related.
The performance problem is that
every time makeAnimal is called,
it's got a sign, an eats function.
In this case, it's actually recreating
a function every single time.
Of course, we could improve that by
doing something like animalEats and
saving the function.
So we're not recreating
the function every time, but
we're still setting
a property every single time.
And this problem would just get worse and
worse as we added more properties.
Eats, speaks, so
this might be some other function that
we might have defined up here, right?
As we keep adding functions,
we have to assign more and
more properties every time
we want to make an animal.
What the proto allows us to do, is look
on directly on our object first but
then look somewhere else for
potentially shared properties.
And when you create a new animal instance,
as you already saw,
it only assigns one proto property.
There's only one property assignment,
instead of a property assignment for
every single function you
want on your instance,
your little objects that
you want to create.
So what I mean is, if I have an animal.
>> Justin Meyer: As a function.
That does the same kinda thing,
just it's just gonna do
the this.name equals name thing.
And I had the same animal that
prototype.eats as a function.
And then I also had a speaks.
>> Justin Meyer: Okay, so
instead of calling makeAnimal,
if I were to do animal equals new Animal,
what this does is it creates
a new animal instance in memory,
which is pretty much what this is doing
in assigning its name property to name.
But instead of having to go through and
assign an eats property and
a speaks property, it just assigns one
proto property to animal, that prototype.
And because the dot operator
is already wired up to look
on the proto chain for
these methods, it will find it.
And this way I can create lots and
lots of objects
very quickly, doing very minimal work and
delay the and, essentially,
delay the cost.
Because essentially what we're saying is,
look up is going to be a tiny bit more
expensive for animal dot,
this kind of animal that eats,
versus this kind of animal dot eats,
because there's a walk up the protochain.
But we're making that trade, because
creating a million of them is gonna be so
much faster.
So that's why there's this proto thing and
why it walks up and
tries to find these shared properties.
It's cuz you don't want to make
every object have a copy of
every single property.
It's a performance thing.
Hopefully that gives you
some better context and
understanding of why it is this way.